And we're back to talk about race again in the first section.
When we talked about a race we said that they looked something like this
square brackets and we can put whatever we want we'll just put it in a few numbers here.
So these are a race and we talked about the fact that we can do four loops with them.
We can do for each with them which was new in my script five and today we're going to learn a few more
but before we do that let's remember how the four each works.
Let's say we wanted to multiply every single number in the array.
We can just do the concert.
Remember now we can just use our new iOS 6 index and we can say that new Array equals array dot for
each.
And it reads nicely right for each array.
We are going to use a number and we're going to use air function again no more function word.
Everything looks nicer this way with the Fat Al and for each number in the array.
We'll say no times to so multiply everything by two.
Now let's see what that gives us console log new Array
undefined.
Well because that's not how for each works right and for each just says I'm going to loop over these
elements and I'm going to multiply number by two but we're not changing the array.
If we look at the array right now well it's still the same thing 1 to 10 16.
We're just randomly multiplying the numbers by two.
But we're not really storing it anywhere if we want to do what we're doing then we have to say const
double and we'll say that double is an array and then double dork push
so we're pushing onto the array as we look through it.
No.
Times to.
Now let's see what double gives us
save a refresh and look at that.
I get to for twenty thirty two.
OK.
Now the ones we're going to talk about today is map filter and reduce I would say that these three are
probably the most important methods that you'll use in your day to day javascript they're super useful.
So really start to become familiar with them.
And any time you think of doing some sort of a loop most likely you want to do one of these three let's
start off with map the above way of doubling each thing in the array and creating a new array well with
map we can do cost map array array dot map number is no times to and the way map works is that you always
need to return something because what's different for map than it is for for each.
Well for each just loops over something and it just does whatever the function says versus with the
array we can do what we couldn't with for each which is loop over each element each number and return
a new array.
Let me show you what I mean.
Every time the array loops.
So let's say over here the first one is number one we return 1 times 2 that gets put into map array
which is now 2 and then we go to the next number 2 Two times two now gets added to the array 10 times
2 gets added to the array and 16 times 2 gets added to the array.
So that's why we return it.
And by doing this if we console DOT Blog map array
and let's refresh here and provide a closing bracket here let's try that again.
You see that map array.
So the first one is double and the second one is map array will name these just so we know the difference
and let's just redo that all over again.
So you're wondering why I am refreshing instead of just copy and pasting it down here.
Well that's because because we're using const it saying array has already been declared so have to refresh
but there you go.
For each and map looking at these two they seem to both be doing the same thing but there is a critical
difference between map and for each.
And I'm here to tell you that whenever you want to loop do a simple loop and take some action on something
like an array you want to use map over for each with for each the operation may do nothing.
You can just leave this completely blank or do console log because all for each cares about is to iterate
which is going one by one to iterate over a collection of elements like 1 to 10 and 16 and apply whatever
operation we tell it to on each element.
Now map on the other hand has a restriction on the operation.
It expects the operation to return an element.
So with MAP WITH for each you can have multiple lines of code doing all these crazy things versus map
with map.
You always have a return element the map iterate again loops through over a collection of elements applying
the operation on each element and then finally storing the result of each invocation of the operation.
That's this into another collection which is map array.
In other words map transforms the array it creates a new array which is map array versus for each which
just does a whole bunch of actions based on the array and what those actions are aren't really that
limited.
If we want to return a new array we have to create our own array and then push and you might notice
here something that we spoke about in the last section when we talked about advanced functions.
And that is the idea of side effects.
If we go back with for each you can do a whole bunch of side effects within the function.
You can console law you can create a new array you can push to that array you can return undefined you
saw that when we first did the for each or even now we're not really returning anything.
So we're returning on define versus with a map.
All these side effects are theoretically gone and because with a map we have to return.
Let me just show you.
If I don't return here let's see what happens.
I get.
Map undefined undefined undefined undefined.
Right away we know that we're doing something wrong that we need to return.
And as we mentioned in the previous section we've now created a pure function where there's no question
about whether we return or not we have inputs a function with no side effects that just simply returns
a value again a very important concept.
We want to keep things acting in an expected way.
We don't want to have a piece of code that lives on a Web site.
Let's say for four years and somebody comes along who doesn't know it intimately and all of a sudden
have all these side effects happen that they don't know about.
Again we want to write pure simple functions and that is what map allows us to do.
And the other important thing is that we're not changing the array.
This array stays the exact same with map because we're always just making a new copy of the array.
We're never mutating the data all right.
So that was map.
Let's bring back the return here and let's bring back the console I also want to show you that when
you only have a single parameter with a narrow function you can actually avoid the brackets and again
because we're returning and we're just returning a single line here.
We can do shorthand which is just this
how much cleaner does that look let's again test that out.
There you go.
Everything's looking nice.
Look at that difference between the map and the for each the next one I'm going to show you is filter
now with filter we can say filter array and as the name suggests we can filter our array with a condition
in our case we can say let's return all the elements in the array that are above 5 so we can say no
is greater than 5.
And as with map This returns a new array.
So we have to return something because filter array is going to contain that information.
So the way you read this is filter this array which is up here as you're going one by one so no.
Well the first one return is one greater than five in this case it's going to say that's false.
So we're not going to add this into the filter array then a data rates 2 2 is 2 greater than 5.
No that's false.
So it's not going to go into the filter array is 10 greater than five.
Yes it is good.
Ten is going to go into the filter array and is 16 greater than five.
Yep.
Then 16 is going to go into the array and again because it's just a single line we can do short form
here
and now if we console log and we'll say filter filter array
and refresh we get the filter containing 10 and 16 if we do equals to five while in that case we get
an empty array because nothing equals five.
So you can put any condition you want in here.
If you had string and you want to see if it contains the word hello.
Well you can do that as well.
All you have to do is return true or false if it returns false.
It won't go into the array if it returns true well it will go into the array.
Very cool very useful.
What else do we have.
Well the last one I want to show you is reduce and this is really really powerful you can do a lot with
reduce.
You can actually do filtering and mapping with reduce.
So it's a really really powerful method.
But I'm going to show you one easy way to get you started what we're gonna do is we're going to say
const
reduce array equals.
And again this returns a new array we say reduce and reduce takes something called an accumulator and
the number.
Now obviously this can be any name.
Sometimes you'll see a HCC for accumulator we'll just leave it like that for now so you can see we know
what number is number is 1 to 10 then 16 but what is accumulator.
Well accumulator is something where we can store the information that happens in the body of the function.
Let me explain accumulator plus number and again because with reduced were returning an array we have
to return a value.
And what we're saying here is that every time you iterate.
So let's say the first go around you have no one accumulator plus no one equals let's say if the accumulator
is zero then it'll equal one now zero plus one equals one when 2 comes around.
We do one plus two because the accumulator remembers what was there previously and then 10 comes around
and you go three plus 10.
Now what is the accumulator.
We haven't defined it anywhere in reduce after the function.
You have a second parameter and here we can specify while you want or accumulator to start with the
default value.
In our case let's say 0 now if I do console dialogue produce
and do reduce array.
Let's see what happens
we get reduce twenty nine because ten plus sixteen is twenty six plus three is twenty nine.
If I change this to five and I copy and try this again we get thirty four because the starting number
is now five
variable so that's it.
I want you to remember these three methods because you're gonna be using them a lot in your career they're
very very useful they're pure which means every time we do an operation whatever inputs we get in.
It always returns of value.
And there are no side effects.
And as you can see they're very easy and simple to read so get used to them.
And good luck with the exercises.
After this video I'll see in the next one by.